if I asked you to think of a ferocious
killer animal you'd probably think of a
lion and for all the wonderful predatory
skills that a lion has it still only has
about a twenty percent success rate at
catching a meal now one of the most
successful hunters in the entire Animal
Kingdom is surprising the dragonfly if
dragonflies are killer flies and when
they see a smaller fly they have about a
97 percent chance of catching it for a
meal and this is in mid-flight but how
can such a small insect be so precise in
this episode we're gonna see how the
dragonflies brain is highly specialized
to be a deadly killer so what makes the
dragonfly one of the most successful
predators in the animal kingdom one it's
the eyes it has near 360-degree vision
to the wings
with individual control of its wings the
drag if I can move precisely in any
direction but the real secret of the
dragonfly success is how its brain
coordinates as complex information
between the eyes and the wings and turns
hunting into a simple reflex to study
this Jamie's been spending a lot of time
socializing with dragonflies what do you
need to do your experiments first of all
you need dragonflies I have a mesh cage
to catch the dragonflies the more I
worked with them the more terrified I
got of them they're actually very scary
especially under microscope they have
really sharp mandibles are generally
pretty aggressive which I guess also
helps them to be really good predators
now in order to learn what's going on
inside the dragonflies brain when it
sees a prey we're gonna East drop in on
a conversation between the eyes and the
wings and to do that we need to
anesthetize the dragonfly on ice and
make sure we protect its wings so that
we can release it afterwards
now the dragonflies brain is made up of
specialized cells called neurons and
these neurons are what allow the
dragonfly to see and move so quickly
individual neurons form circuits by
connecting to each other via long tiny
threads called axons and the neurons
communicate over these axons using
electricity in the dragonfly we replaced
little metal wires or electrodes along
the axon tracts and this is what's
really cool in the dragonfly there's
only sixteen neurons that's eight per
eye that tell the wings exactly where
the target is we've placed the electrode
so that we can record from these neurons
that connect the eyes to the wings
whenever a message is being passed from
the edge of the wing our electrode
intercepts that conversation in the form
of an electrical current and it
amplifies it now we can both hear it and
see it in the form of a spike which we
also call an action potential now let's
listen in right now we have the
dragonfly flipped upside down so he's
looking down towards the ground we're
gonna take a pray or what we sometimes
call it target in this case the targets
got to be a fake fly and we're gonna
move it into the drag of flies sights
whoa oh look at that look at that but
it's only in one direction oh yes you
don't see any spikes when either forward
the draw when I come back in our
experiments we're able to see that the
neuron to the dragonfly fired when we
move the target in one direction but not
the other now why is that I remember
when I said that the dragonfly had near
360-degree vision well there's a section
in the eye called the fovea and this is
the part that has the sharpest visual
acuity and you can think of it as its
crosshairs remember what I told you the
dragonfly had individual precise control
of its wings when a dragonfly sees its
prey it trains its crosshairs on it and
a longest axons it sends messages only
to the neurons that control the parts of
the wings that are needed to keep that
dragonfly on target so if the prey is on
the left of the dragonfly only the
neurons that are tugging the wings to
the left are fired and if the prey moves
to the right of the dragonfly those same
neurons are not needed so they're gonna
remain quiet and the dragonfly speed
soar the prey at a fixed angle is
communicated by this crosshairs to the
wings and then BOOM dinner
now all this happens at a split second
and it's effortless for the dragonfly
it's almost like a reflex and this whole
incredibly efficient process is called
fixation but there's one more story to
this process we saw the neurons respond
to movements but how does the dragonfly
know that something really is prey this
is where size matters let's show the
dragonfly a series of dots
[Applause]
oh yeah that's so much more powerfully
out of all the sizes we found that the
dragonfly responded to smaller targets
over larger ones in other words the
dragonfly was programmed to go after
smaller flies versus something much
larger like a bird and as soon as it
recognizes something that's prey that
poor little fly only has seconds to live
today we got to see how the drag of eyes
brain works to make it a very efficient
killer and let's be thankful that we
didn't live 300 million years ago when
dragonflies over the size of cats
[Music]